# LaPOD
LaPOD is a project to create a logic analyzer probe for the various [Rigol]
oscilloscopes that feature the logic analyzer connector. Not all scopes have
the connector exposed and not all scopes have the components needed on the
PCB. But for those that do, the LaPOD could be a cheap alternative to get
those probes.


## Scope support
Currently supported is the MSO5000 series, which feature a 50 pin IDC connector
and the DHO900, which features the same 50 pin connector, but is a bit more
narrow at the front. To cater for either needs or choice, there's two breakout
boards that feature either a full, but wider HDMI connector, or a mini HDMI
connector which makes the PCB as narrow as possible.

The idea is, to also get a 68 pin IDC connector added, but that requires
the knowledge of the pinout and someone that can validate and test the design.
The 68 pin IDC connector should have nearly the same signals however and would
fit the DS1074Z-S Plus for example.

The DS7000 and MSO8000 feature a PCI express 1x connector (34 pins), with an
unknown pinout, but the idea is that it could very much also support our pods.


## PODs
Currently, there are 3 pods available. The LMH7322 based pod, where two dual
channel chips supply 4 bits to the pod. The LMH7322 is the same chip used in
the official PLA2216 (MSO5000) and RPL1116 (DS1000Z) probes. It may also be
used on the RPL2316 (DS2000, DS7000 and MSO8000). The original probe needs 8
of these chips for 16 channels, and that brings the cost of the chips alone
up to around $75. Probably one of the reason of the high price.

Then there's also the LMH7324 based pod. Here a single quad channel chip is
used to supply the 4 bits to the pod. The LMH7324 is very closely related to
the LMH7322, but not identical. It is a little bit cheaper option and for some
signal scenarios even preferred to have the same chip handle 4 channels.

Finally, there is the SNV65LVDS based chip. It is a much cheaper chip that can
do logic signal detection, but at a very much more limited range. It also costs
considerably less. A true cheap alternative.


## Outputs
The schematics, PCB's gerbers etc are generated by the CI pipeline and can be
found under [releases](https://gitlab.com/riglol/lapod/-/releases) for tagged
builds. Tagging happens after verification however, so the release-candidates,
the files sent out to the board house for verification can be found under
[packages](https://gitlab.com/riglol/lapod/-/packages).


## Contact
Discussion about the development of these pods is held over on the
[EEVBlog forum].


[Rigol]: https://rigolna.com
[EEVBlog forum]: https://www.eevblog.com/forum/testgear/another-low-cost-la-probe-for-rigol-mso5000-by-oliv3r/
